Why I'm Starting This Blog

For the last week, I've been thinking about learning accessible web design by making a simple website. Of course, in order for a website to be worth making, it needs content. Because I desire the habit of thinking about long-term project sustainability, I decided the natural content for a practice blog is an explanation of the blogs own creation. In this way, whenever the blog ends it will have covered precisely all of what it is meant to cover.

But there is (my id wispers) a grand gulf between thinking about doing something and actually doing it: that impassible chasm filled with phantasms of future failure, morasses of imagined mediocrity, tantalizing timewasters, and the all-pervasive backwards pull of passivity. All the tissue-thin excuses that my ego conjures in order to not admit that more banal expression of Bartleby the Scrivener: "I would prefer not to." Yes, the first step loomed distant until it was taken.

The impetus that spurned this project into motion was an experience with my parent's old computer that they'd hooked up to a TV to act as an Entertainment Center. Not only is it slow, but the wireless mouse lags in updating its position, leading to large, hard to track jumps across the screen. I offered to take over, confident in my skills to navigate the web with only the keyboard. In my memory, years ago, doing so was not so difficult. I got to Netflix, and my experience there was not excellent. It was not terrible, but given the scale, popularity, and engineering ingenuety of that particular site I feel entitled to expect better than 'not entirely terrible'.

I want better than this. One of the most popular sites in the world becomes irritating to navigate for a programmer if they lose their mouse. So I'm embarking on this project to understand. There are undoubtedly shortcuts and free tools I don't know about; equally certain is that many who would benefit from such are just as ignorant of them. Features that we never use are effectively invisible. So I'm going to learn what can I do to make my website more accessible and how difficult each change is. Working on accessibility will make it visible to me, and when I recognize an issue, I want to be able to instantly offer both a solution and a Rough Order of Magnitude cost estimate for improving it.
